there is a phrase that appears in the
Bible as the times of the Gentiles and
they shall fall by the edge of the sword
and shall be led away captive into all
nations and Jerusalem shall be trodden
down of the Gentiles until the times of
the Gentiles be fulfilled this is the
only time this phrase appears in
Scripture
because of this the only way to
understand it is from the context the
context applicable to this subject
starts in Luke chapter 21 verse 5 and
ends in verse 24 working backwards we
should figure out who they of verse 24
are verse 21 says them which are in
Judaea and verse 23 says then that are
with child and to them that give suck
notice it says these people would fall
by the sword keep that in mind as most
modern-day attackers use guns and not
swords it says Jerusalem would be
trodden down at Jesus previously spoken
of Jerusalem starting in verse 5 it
refers to the temple located in
Jerusalem and as some spoke of the
temple how it was adorned with goodly
stones and gifts he said as for these
things which you behold the days will
come in the which there shall not be
left one stone upon another that shall
not be thrown down they asked him saying
master but windsheild these things be
and what sign will there be when these
things shall come to pass Jesus then
logically goes on to answer their
questions remember their questions were
when will the temple be thrown down and
what sign will there be when the temple
is thrown down continuing from verse 8
and he said take heed that you be not
deceived for many shall come in my name
saying I am Christ and the time draws
near
do not follow them but when you shall
hear of wars and commotions be not
terrified
for these things must first come to pass
but the end is not immediate first
notice who Jesus said would hear of wars
and commotions jesus said you and when
he said that he was talking to his
disciples specifically Peter James and
John and Andrew as identified in the
parallel account of mark chapter 13
verse 3 then Jesus mentions the end what
end was he referring to remember his
disciples asked about the temple being
thrown down so Jesus is speaking of the
end of the temple continuing from verse
10 then said he unto them nation shall
rise against nation and Kingdom against
Kingdom in great earthquake shall be in
diverse places and famines and
pestilences and fearful sights and great
signs shall there be from heaven after
these disciples hear of wars they will
take place they would also experience
various acts of nature how though did
these take place before the temple was
thrown down the Jews had civil war
amongst themselves and commotions with
the Roman authorities in Jerusalem first
century historian Josephus has seven
books that cover these events just some
of the nations and kingdoms that were
war were the Jews Romans and Parthian
earthquakes famines and signs from
heaven all occurred prior to the temple
destruction and were recorded by first
century historians
you
continuing from verse 12 but before all
these they shall lay their hands on you
and persecute you delivering you up to
the synagogues and into prisons being
brought before kings and rulers for my
name's sake and you shall be betrayed
both by parents and brothers and
kinfolks and friends and some of you
they shall cause to be put to death some
of these disciples were to be killed
prior to the destruction of the temple
in 70 AD was this actually the case
tradition tells us Peter
and both disciples named James died
prior to 70 AD these men were put to
death by the Jews and Romans which were
the warring nations spoken of earlier
continuing from verse 17 and you shall
be hated of all men for my name's sake
but there shall not a hair of your head
perish in your patience possess ye your
souls how does this verse make sense
when the prior verse said how some would
be put to death the key word there is
some the disciples who would not be put
to death would be preserved from such
physical harm they would endure through
persecution and would remain alive or as
the King James says possess ye your
souls now in verses 20 through 21 Jesus
begins to talk about Jerusalem when the
temple was and we you shall see
Jerusalem compassed with armies then
know that the desolation thereof is near
then let them which are in Judea flee to
the mountains and let them which are in
the midst of it depart out and let not
them that are in the countries enter
thereinto notice here that Jesus uses
the word desolation in regards to
Jerusalem being surrounded with armies
continuing in verse 22 for these be the
days of vengeance that all things which
are written may be fulfilled
I'm going to leave the context now only
because this verse mentions things which
are written is the destruction of this
temple spoken of elsewhere in Scripture
the people of the prince that shall come
shall destroy the city and the sanctuary
and the end thereof shall be with a
flood and unto the end of the war
desolations are determined notice Daniel
uses the phrase the end just like in
Luke chapter 21 verse 9 back in Luke
21:24 it mentions Gentiles trampling on
Jerusalem for Gentiles responsible for
trampling down Jerusalem and it's temple
yes the Roman army was made up of
Gentiles back in verse 22 Luke uses the
phrase the days of vengeance who is
bringing vengeance upon whom and why
therefore also said the wisdom of God I
will send them prophets and apostles and
some of them they shall slay and
persecute the blood of all the prophets
which was shed from the foundation of
the world may be required of this
generation from the blood of Abel under
the blood of Zacharias which perished
between the altar and the temple verily
I say unto you it shall be required of
this generation the times of the
Gentiles began when the Roman army under
emperor Titus surrounded Jerusalem the
times ended when the Roman army knocked
down Jerusalem's walls this is why both
Daniel and Jesus used the phrase the end
some who would disagree with this
teaching would jump to Revelation to
explain this though the book of
Revelation did not even exist until
around 67 years after Jesus spoke these
words aside from the Book of Daniel that
Jesus specifically mentioned in Matthew
and marks accounts there is no need to
jump out of context to understand the
times of the Gentiles